let's see couple items on the agenda is
there any would like to add something to
agenda and I excuse me I'm switching
back and forth from the notes to the
zoom so anybody like to add something to
the agenda today okay then let's go
ahead and get started um let's see the
examples just disappeared do we have any
demos today I'm sorry Matt did you have
something on for a demo no okay
well this might be the easiest
moderating job ever because it looks
like this nothing to go over no topics
no demos okay that folks from Nouri are
saying that they might have a demo for
us next week and I know they've been
working closely or they've been using
ipfs in their workflow and so forth and
incorporating I'd give us let's see and
they do have some questions I've seen us
in the chat regarding RTFM which I'm not
familiar with so is everybody okay if we
just let them ask those questions right
now okay okay so Paul why don't you go
in iMeet yourself and ask the questions
that you have yeah so I've got some
questions which you guys can just tell
me to go read the manual one of them is
about IP LD
and how far along that project is and
then the other one is about what is it
called C blower versus the protocol
buffer thing what do people where's that
what what do people think about those
which one should I cry you burst Paul do
you mind introducing yourself for those
that might not know who you are and what
you're working on
I assuming there's nobody new here from
last week which there might be people
should know me but if you don't I'm
working on this project called Nuria
where we're trying to create a
marketplace for the exchange of carbon
removal credits and we want to make it
as these centralized as possible to
create trust or a platform for trust
across fires and sellers of these assets
and so ipfs is very interesting to us
possible
distributing public data in a way that
is decentralized thank you
I can try to take a stab at answering
those questions and given that I've been
reading the issues that Paul as opening
and the emails with other questions I'll
I'm going to try to be like specifically
answering what your questions giving
that I have all these other contacts but
like if someone else like he's not
following feel free to like raise your
hand and stop me and ask for more
contacts and so I POV is many things one
way to describe a plb is it is a
canonical way to reference
Aisling data and so anything that you
today f access through an - can be a get
walk it object can be a Bitcoin block a
turn file an IP FS file etc can be
described by a type eld link and right
gal the link is a Content identifier so
the terms ID appears a lot of times when
talking about IPO B when
when we use a kill the on ipfs or we can
use a kill the wanna confess through the
deck API so if you do I press space stag
or if you are using just the parasite
because cop dot back you will get two
function calls and get input put you can
put the egg nodes you can even I just
drop some blob of JSON Mike it will add
it to my PFS and it will a and it
will give you the CID for that pop up
Jason if you do get you can do two
things you can just get a CID so
continent fire and you get the note back
or you can do a CID plus a path so if
you have an object with like a property
name you can do CID slash name and now
instead of like reading the the object
you just read the property that is on
the object itself and so if that
property that you're having that object
is actually a link to some other object
you get this really nice feature where
you can do like CID / HP / E and some of
those like that are actually links to
other notes and those notes can be again
and be a Bitcoin block and being a Ewing
block and be a torrent file and ipfs
will be able to use the IPL the resolver
to traverse to those multiple formats
and find the data that you are actually
looking for without without having to
stop at any part of the resolving
because it is a different format or
because the other structures are not
droppable like it that's what it is
solving at the first layer the for once
I can ask some questions and so I read a
bunch of about see IDs and it seems like
you can use all kinds of different
hashes but what what hash is ipfs using
by default so that the answer to that is
shot to 256 for everything that is ipfs
files but that doesn't mean that like if
we are like fetching between blocks that
we are going to use the same ash we we
understand like that that is a different
ash on the CID and we use that to check
the integrity of the block and so
expending a little bit more on that and
on your previous question about like
what is he bore what is per above we
have two formats called Decker buff and
Dex Ybor and deck pro buff is like the
not necessarily legacy but it was like
the first format that I people supported
often name or often called the Michael
deck and Merkle that format is a
photograph that has a schema that says
it has a data field and a links field
and the links are like pointers to other
leg nodes and say you can create these
grab data structures where you bring a
file into ipfs you break the file into
pieces and then you build a bag that
represents the file and the tag is
always built by like these links
pointing to other nodes at point to
other nodes then eventually add the data
of the file and that is like what you
get like the data structure that you get
when you use like ipfs add today we have
a new format that comes with activist
called X Ybor and it is essentially the
same thing like you can construct the
same bag with vacci board but it has
other properties for example it doesn't
require you to have a schema so if you
wanted to represent the file on ipfs
with some other structure you are not
forced to like use the data field and
the links field you can have your own
names you're gonna have your own
metadata you can have whatever you want
because in the end it is like a JSON
object in your wagon one like this
driving already gets represented it also
has one again you know it is a deck see
war but it has one-to-one mapping with
Jason so you can use just so I imagine
that I mentioned that uh
Seymour is this specific specification
and the protobuf is like Google's
protocol buffer format yeah
and I mention they have similar
characteristics in terms of efficiency
and encoding and things like that not
necessarily like there are some things
or Arabic cells better than seawater but
axiory's more flexible
just because again one-to-one mapping to
Jason it's really good for anything that
we do on the web
and like what developers love tinkering
with Jason but for ipfs it works really
well because we can serialize a Jason
into a thing that is binary packed and
and we can use that binary package
formats to move the nodes around and to
to make sure that we always - to the
same value so while I see your hand up
you want to add something or Arsenal
yeah so you just been talking about the
distinction between C bore and AG C bore
I'm wondering if you could say how dag C
bore relates to IP LD yeah so good
question
um the Seaboard is frozen questions a my
first and still you're better okay so C
war is the serialization format when we
have the IPL be format the XE board we
are already like making some decisions
for example we are saying hey like you
can ask Jason to this thing
and we'll do the sterilization for you
we are not going to insert another
schema because C bar also supports for
schemas if you want but like we we don't
like pick any schema for the the
serialization and so it's actually we
don't mess your data
[Music]
by ad week and myself rosin like it
seems like everyone is frozen now oh my
god
all right am i back is my internet so it
he's back I think Uribe uh yeah I don't
know why my internet failed I have no
idea what you guys have heard so far
because I just continue talking and then
I realize anyone is frozen
a-okay my dead connection is stable it
doesn't make any sense it's supposed to
work very well what about now okay all
right okay now I'm hearing this
okay so I was talking about the LV and
the question was see war versus taxi war
and I don't know what you guys have
heard from my explanation or nothing
about it okay okay okay so from the
start see war is just like a binary Peck
format to represent Jason it actually
sends four concise binary object
representation and we when we have the
Dex award format for IPL D we are
already making some decisions of how
that format should be used for example
we decide not to use any specific schema
and so when we grab a blob objects and
if you get sterilized to the default
schema that C bar uses it's actually it
means like we don't mess with your data
so if you grab two blobs of Jason in two
different like the first nodes and Adam
there will always result into the same
CID we like we we don't have any
specific metadata to it it also enables
us to to create a plugin for IPL v so
that you can
okay sorry I was just thinking that you
know to chat and let me know if you have
any questions just raise your hand so it
enables us to have a plug in that we had
the IPL the resolver and that features
the IPL the resolver to be able to
traverse through these Seabourn notes
and so the the way that it works that
that Pat notation that I was explaining
before where you do like the a slash B
and C and so on is provided by the deck
C board format and it said IPL d format
it gets clothing into the IPL the
resolver and and I'm I know I'm saying
like a lot of times I feel the resolve
like I feel the resolver and format and
if you are mixing all of them let me
know so that I maybe try to start from
from the top but yeah you have this
resolver thing you plug in all these
formats and suddenly these full resolver
gets like a the ability to resolve
through that specific format and so you
can do this for again for PTO and
criterium for the XC or for diaper above
and you can create tomorrow
exact message back you can create
tomorrow your own format right you can
you can have Paul's service action
binary packs whatever in any credit to
ipfs and so I profess then we'll know
how to traverse that format as well so
that if someone does a query a fetch for
something that is inside the data
structure it can indeed like fetch some
key that he's on that data structure why
did I see that a question or comment go
ahead I think Devine answer I guess I
had a follow-up though from what he was
just saying so so I guess just to
clarify dag seaboard is an IPO the
format
yes okay awesome and yeah the thing that
you can register different formats with
an IP I'll be resolver so that you can
understand this data like with an IP FS
there exactly
okay thanks exactly exactly that's it
and and yeah we if you go to the IPL BR
and if you like search for Jess that's
IPL B - any of those formats you will
find like a module for each of the
format's which is accentuated clicking
that was describing then attaches to the
maenge resolver and and then as always
like all of them at the same epi so
basically they are just teaching IPL D
to traverse into the thermos so I saw
one more hand but no I don't see it
anymore
I just this generated question for me
which is on Friday I was chatting with
Lars about the fact that and this sounds
may be similar in like Lib Lib p2p
depending on your implementation if you
don't have all the same transports in
your implementation that another node
might you might not be able to actually
communicate with all the nodes out there
because they might not all speak the
same set of transports is this sort of a
is it does it make sense or is it
correct to think of it similarly for
things like Dex Eve are other ways of
serializing all these IP LD links that
if your implementation that you're
running on your node or whatever in your
software doesn't understand that
serialization or have that plug-in like
have the dag steve or plugin you won't
be able to necessarily traverse those
links and understand that hash so that
yeah there is one hundred percent
correct it is a similar thing that
happens there the difference is when we
are on IPL do and so networking when it
means like we don't even get to talk
with the node because if we don't
support a same transport although you
can do relay and and so for example from
browser to a desktop mode you can have a
real way nodes that alex boat and then i
acts as a bridge for IPL v because you
are the one fetching the data and so you
are resolving it locally like right now
the way that
works and and by the way this is like
IPL be a level one there's like two more
levels that then offer other features
but what's like just make sure that
everyone is really solid in everyone's
minds and so because you I don't want
fetching you at least still get the data
and because the links it's themselves
have the multi collect so the type of
the data you know that like you either
know that you have the resolver you
already don't have the result and so if
you don't have the resolver now you are
empowered with information like you have
information to understand which resolver
you are missing so that you can fetch it
online and add it to your note one of
the things that we are exploring which
is really exciting by the way is like
creating mystery solvers in a language
that can compile to web assembly and so
we talkin a lot about like riding these
resolvers in rust and compiling them to
webassembly because webassembly can then
be fetched from the network itself so if
you find that you are try to resolve to
it curium but you don't have the atrium
resolver you can fetch webassembly
inject into the web assemble vm that you
are running and suddenly your nose gets
a new superpower and because you are
fetching codes that gets authenticated
because of my previous right
monkey-patching - run - and because it
gets isolated on the website with vm
it's kind of like okay those called yun
days but it's kind of safe to run it
definitely make make tests and well but
it's a pretty clear idea that you can
just find computation online that solves
your problem that gives you the ability
to understand data and just load it on
the file so Mac ever helped just back
out of like you through in this notion
of resolvers without finding a resolver
so to Rob's question if I have an IP FS
node that's storing some aetherium
transactions but it does not have the
resolver that knows how to make sense
house knows how to resolve selectors
within etherium content that node would
still be able to give you the the
content it's still an IPSS know that
the content but you would not be able to
use I peel these selectors to say hey
just give me this little piece within it
like give me the sender's wallet address
from from this it's your intersection
and so that part you would need an IP FS
note that has a resolver that speaks
aetherium like that knows how to parse
an aetherium the etherium data format
and so that's where different nodes will
have different resolvers and then part
of the work is making it so that you
could even dynamically load a resolver
if you don't have it so Matt well you
have applaud do you mind suggesting to
others it might be watching the
recording and so forth some further
resources to follow up on this would you
recommend it's more that the
documentation around this is still
coming into existence and so I'm more
I'm wondering which what should be the
focus if we made a couple tutorials
around IP LD what should those tutorials
show my inclination is to have one
tutorial that shows you just
round-tripping some JSON through dag
Seaborg so I have some I have some
metadata that's maybe pointing to a get
data set and an ethereal transaction and
I write that into a I P of s and I'm
able to use that information and load it
back down use the resolvers so maybe
it's a tutorial that shows that but also
um something that's even simpler of I
want to create some metadata about a
file I just added ipfs
so I expressed that metadata as JSON and
I persisted into ipfs Anika's persisted
as as IP LD so that I could then use use
that route use resolvers to read the
info those are the two tutorials that I
lean towards um that we should probably
make around this because I that's like
scratching the surface of what IP LD is
and honestly I think when you go deeper
than scratching the surface it just
confuses people like the dog there is
documentation other the good is deeper
but it's just competing people that's
far
because there's just too much there
conceptually awesome so we are going to
I do intend to in this at 10:30 unless
people want to extend it and I noticed
that there are about 10 or 11 people
that have put their names in the notes
and their 918 on the call so if you
haven't added your name to the notes
please do so any any other topics or do
we want to continue this conversation
for another five minutes I did I just
wanted to point out to some links so I
posted here on the chat the interface IP
only format which is basically the
interface that it's like modules have to
implement to add a new format at the
newspaper Laurel power to that kildeer
is over you can check just IPL B which
as well it's it's where all these other
formats get plugged in and like there's
a bunch of tests on like reading notes
and like going to the nodes and doing
traverse traversal on a nodes if you
check just ipfs itself because all of
this Jessica all the API gets exposed on
IP Beslan on a dag API so it's like 101
mapping on justifies itself you have an
examples folder on and the example
folder you have two examples one is
traversing at the LD graphs and it shows
you how to create deck / web nodes and
the XE who are nodes and like to
traverse from one to the other and then
there is also an example like exploring
the atrium blockchain where there's like
a bunch of it drain box there that you
can just add with a block put and then
you can traverse through those and like
get some data from those blocks so it
gives you like a an idea like a an
example that you can test and see how it
feels
then there's like two tools one is the
graph builder which is just like a thing
that helps you do like large graphs with
Jason and then instead of like you
having to create node by node and
isolating them together by pointing by
updating the link to the other one you
can just create like a large other Jason
structure and I'd say where to slice it
and then like it knows there's like okay
I need to slice the the JSON structure
here and and replace this the idea of
this
to that location so that it creates then
the proper graph there is also the UNIX
FS engine and a UNIX FS engine is the
module that knows how to convert files
check them and create the graphs and
there is multiple layouts multiple
topologies all those were created it's a
little bit more complex module but like
if you have time to dive into the into
it you will see all these graphs are
created and how these things get used
and yeah this is the module that keeps
all the FCAT get API is to just be fast
so a lot of great insights there again
like it'll be great this was all a
tutorial but yeah like we we have a
hybrid between examples some explanation
some spec and some code that might help
people understand the other point I
really want to make again this is like
level 1 but this is just like getting
ipfs to be able to be the smirk of
forest where all the medical trees can
live and all the mecha trees can be
found and you can traverse through them
from like you can jump from one tree to
another tree there's other two layers
and that is when we talk about selectors
where it's sort of like you just
speaking a property of a graph you can
actually pick like an intersection of a
graph and then there is another thing
which we typically call transformations
but transformations might be also known
by grass theorists as processing
referencing or ask people from databases
as query language and so that is where
we talk about ok now that we have a
graph database in a profess how can we
expose a really nice language that users
can then interact with this immense
forest of data we don't ever sorry
someone spoke all right for interrupting
it would be awesome if you could just
use graphically well - like query
everything I think I could be awesome to
be able to use graph key all noise
another like graph engines on top of my
PFS and I just just I might be festive
like a storage engine for them and later
like improve those the ground on the
basis to understand what is Ashley
so that they can get the benefits for
their searches and for the queries and
so on but yet to agree which you get
graph QL as a pro that cool awesome
stuff so Thank You devide thank you Paul
Thank You Wyatt and I would just like to
say that you know I've watched some of
Pedro's tutorials I think they're
awesome I've watched some of Victor's
sessions and I think those are very very
helpful as well so let's see I I count
about 14 or 15 names on the attendance
list than the notes let's see about 18
participants so please add your name if
you haven't done so already there was a
comment to please add all the links that
divvied posted in the chat into the
notes and I think that would be really
really helpful so we are at 30 minutes
after the hour according to my clock are
there any other topics anything anyone
would like to say before we wrap it up
we are trying to keep these two 30
minutes if you don't want to put
yourself in the attendees list you don't
have to that's totally optional good
point thank you thank you all right so
thank you for allowing me to moderate
that's been fun and we will conclude the
meeting then unless there's anything
else that are missing that no thank you
we good okay cool thanks all right thank
you so much